Template for issues (#159)
GIScience/ohsome-api: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve the ohsome API.
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''

---

### Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

### General Information
Please include the following general information about the issue and list any additional steps needed to reproduce the bug.
 - Version of the ohsome API [e.g. `1.4.0`]
 - Which API instance was requested [e.g. `https://api.ohsome.org/v1`]
 - Affected endpoint(s) [e.g. /contributions/count]

>  - URL of your request

Reviewer: one last point: since we already asked for the api instance and endpoint, there's no need to ask for the URL here again (at least for POST requests). What we however need to know are the used parameters:

```suggestion
 - parameters used for your request
```

Author: I think it is useful to know the URL, at least it would be fast for us to just copy/paste and check the bug (if any). Errors could also come because of a bad request and not because of a bug, e.g. filter syntax used in the wrong way.
Instead of that, I would just change the text and get rid of URLs in the point about the API instance:
 - Which API instance was requested [e.g. remote instance, locale instance with an h2 file or to the cluster connected, ohsome dashboard, etc.]
 - URL of your request (and request body if applicable)

Reviewer: sounds good

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve the project.
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''

---

### Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

### How to Reproduce

> Steps to reproduce the behaviour:

Reviewer 2: This should be an example. Most people might experience issues when requesting something.

1. Go to '...'
2. Execute code '...'
3. See error

### Expected behaviour
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

> ### Further Information

Reviewer 2: I would really like to alter this section in contrast to the [oshdb](https://github.com/GIScience/oshdb/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md) a little bit. It would be nice to have some kind of template with _endpoint_, _parameters_, _data_(?), _used requesting tool/library_ … in it to remind people that it's easier to bugfix if we have the important information.

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve the ohsome API.
title: ''
labels: 'bug'
assignees: ''

---

### Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

### General Information
 - Affected endpoint(s) [e.g. /contributions/count]

>  - Affected parameter(s) [e.g. bpolys, format]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Used query parameter(s) [bpolys/bboxes/bcircles, filter, time, format, etc.]
```

 - HTTP method used [e.g. POST]
 - Used tool/library for the request [e.g. cURL, Postman]

### How to Reproduce
Steps [e.g.] to reproduce the behaviour:
1. Start locally the ohsome API
2. Send this request [URL] (http://localhost:8080/contributions/count?bboxes=8.67%2C49.39%2C8.71%2C49.42&time=2017-01-01%2F2017-01-02%2FP1Y)
3. See error message 'Unable to find...'

### Expected Behaviour

> A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen [e.g. "The error message should be..."]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.
```

I would drop the example here, since the expected behaviour could be so many different things. Similarly we also don't give an example for the initial _bug description_ section.

### Further Information

> #### Error messages, logs, screenshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Error Messages, Logs, Screenshots
```

Author: Same here

If applicable, add printed error messages, log files or screenshots to help explain your problem.

> #### Additional information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Additional Information
```

Author: Since it is a subparagraph I would use capitalization only for the first word.

Reviewer: Why the distinction between "normal" headings and headings of subsections? I would recommend to always use one single consistent style for headings throughout a text.

Add any other further information about the problem here.

> 
> ### System Information
> Please complete the following information:
>  - OS: [e.g. Ubuntu 20.04 LTS]
>  - Java Version: [e.g. openjdk version "11.0.9.1"]
>  - ohsome API Version: [e.g. 1.4.0]
>  - Maven version: [e.g. 3.6.3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is generally irrelevant for ohsome API issues, so I would not ask for it in every bug report. If needed, the users can add such information in the _additional information_ section.

> ### Notes
> Please consider to upload a file if embedded request URLs, responses, error messages or logs are too long or bad displayed in your post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please consider to upload a file if request parameters, responses, error messages or logs are too long or poorly displayed in your bug report.
```

### Bug Description
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

### General Information
Affected endpoint(s) [e.g. /contributions/count].
Affected parameter(s) [e.g. bpolys, format].
HTTP method used [e.g. POST].

> Used tool/library for the request [e.g. cURL, Postman].

Reviewer 2: Please have a look at the [rendered version](https://github.com/GIScience/ohsome-api/blob/issues-template/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md#general-information) of this markdown file as it gives an indicator how it looks like in the later issue. I would suggest to use bulletpoints as within _System Information_.

### General Information
Please include the following general information about the issue and list any additional steps needed to reproduce the bug.
 - Version of the ohsome API [e.g. `1.4.0`]

>  - Which API instance was requested [e.g. remote instance, local instance with an h2 file or to the cluster connected, ohsome dashboard, etc.]

Reviewer: IMHO it's important to know _which_ remote instance was used, so I would not skip that. I'd drop the local+cluster and dashboard examples because two examples are enough and local+cluster is a quite rare/specific set-up and the dashboard is just using to the default remote instance.

```suggestion
 - Which API instance was requested [e.g. remote instance at `https://api.ohsome.org/v1`, local instance with an h2 file, etc.]
```

Or, if you prefer to keep the third example, it would sound better if we write: “_… or connected to the cluster, …_”

Reviewer 3: The URL should definitely be included there as an example, as it's most likely the main access point. The direct cluster connection is indeed quite specific, but still worth mentioning I guess.
